and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business Grove show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly emails where I share
actionable website and B2B marketing
tips podcasts goodies and more over at
business growth dot email
so joining me today I've got Olga
denisova August the VP additional
marketing over at semrash Olga welcome
to the show how are you doing
I'm doing great how are you
I am very good thank you I'm excited for
today's episode because we're gonna be
talking about how our audience can
achieve explosive marketing success just
like you've done in the past year or so
a semrush and I'm looking forward to a
nine step process that we're gonna run
through have some fun with Olga but
first and foremost what does marketing
success really mean in your opinion
oh love it love it love it love this
question so I think uh for any
Department not marketing only success is
always how business defines success like
what your particular business uh defines
uh a success so is it like the awareness
at this point is it the generated
revenue is it the number of uh
Outlook in our Outreach activities that
you've done so in our particular case
marketing is always measured by the
business Revenue so it's very
straightforward so this is how much
dollar amount you have generated so uh
in our case business sets us very
particular targets of dollar amount that
we need to generate and obviously then
we break this down by okay this is how
many particular payments particular
registrations particular trials but the
bottom line is it's always the business
to say okay marketing this is what we
think your success looks like
Revenue first
yep and yeah and are there any do you
think there's any close contenders
because we've had a lot of guests on it
I mean it tends to be a theme especially
over the last kind of couple years a lot
of marketers are shifting into different
tactics some are going down the demand
gen route some in the B2B space are
going ABM others are taking slightly
different shifts and turns everyone says
they want to contribute to revenue
revenue is the main driver but are there
any close contenders let's say in second
or third that you think really helped
move the needle towards that revenue
revenue uh goal yeah yeah absolutely I
think the first Contender here is the
number of new paying customer versus
existing customer so it's very essential
to understand okay whether your business
revenue is growing from your existing
customer database or you're able to
acquire new users new customers who are
ready to pay and this is some something
that I think sometimes uh gets away from
us you know so it's equally important
not only to check upon the overall
business Revenue but also okay so there
always needs to be you know new flow new
uh new traffic coming in otherwise
you're going to stagnate very soon
yeah yeah and you mentioned something
important they're existing customers as
well which is often overlooked right I
mean companies spend so much time Cash
Money effort on marketing outbound
trying to acquire net new business then
often the existing customers get pushed
to the bottom of the pile forgotten
about and the churn rates can go through
the roof yes yes absolutely equally
important so it's always the balance
okay this is how much how many uh we got
come again but this is okay what's
happening with our existing customer
base and it's actually another
standpoint for any growing business like
when you're growing you are going to add
new audience types and it's so easy to
abandon your core audience that you have
nurtured before adding like new
functionality like you know Buzz and
whistles so it's not only even like
about existing customers but it's okay
with this new functionality how do I
make sure that I still satisfy my
existing core database and acquire again
new and then convert them into existing
so yeah it's always like being on the
lookout for like basically everyone
there
and uh yeah but this is what we're going
to talk about today that's it let's jump
in I'm sure there'll be plenty of plenty
of things we'll dive into in a sec so
without without further Ado let's dive
into the the nine steps to explosive
marketing success let's let's hear the
first one I'll go if we may yeah yeah
and uh my first one and those who work
uh with me know that this is basically
my favorite keyword this is the
framework so whenever I start working
with digital marketing at any stage the
first and foremost uh is framework
creating framework uh because and I
think it's equally important for those
who are just starting off like building
their marketing department or
again going into New Market and for
those like in semrush who have already
had some success it's not that like you
know some Rush has never done any
digital marketing right now on the
contrary we've done so much that some
was like Hey okay so what's next because
it's like there have been so many layers
that we've done and so what helps us
actually realize what we can do better
or what we can do in addition to what
we're doing is creating framework and by
this I mean uh think about Dimensions
that you want basically to split all of
your activities so in our case it was
like first and foremost content so we
are producing plenty of content but okay
what types of content we're producing
and then what we did like literally we
put together
endless list of all the assets that we
have ever produced and then analyze them
by content type so what was the best
performing content type again in terms
of business Revenue not the number of
downloads not the number of Engagement
but again business Revenue what were the
underlying principles of best performing
assets versus first performing assets
then another step here was again to map
all the content to customer journey and
like everyone always says yeah hey like
customer journey is very straightforward
like it's like top of the funnel middle
of the funnel like what's new the new
thing is again being very I would say
nerdy and like with all the scrutiny map
out okay so where does this asset belong
to and then when you do that all of a
sudden you say hey we've we have plenty
of content for the track stage plant of
content for engage but only like five
decently working assets for the convert
so for example we're missing you know
comparison against how do we perform
against competition functionality wise
and so on and so forth so that's one
dimension another dimension is about
audiences so again
split down and create you know your
audiences another dimension
of their audiences is targeting so
you're going to have like several
audiences you're going to have the
channels you're going to have the
targeting and when you map you know it's
like a matrix right and so we yeah and
you like cross
crossover and then again oh wow we are
not reaching this audience through this
targeting in this geography how did we
miss this out and so for different
companies these Dimensions may be
different depending on their focuses but
at the end of the day it's always like
targeting channels audiences attribution
and last but not least organization and
this is the piece that I think in like
90 of cases is missing because like
whenever we start discussing digital
marketing we tend to forget okay so
who's buying do I need to get to
actually make all of this work and I
think this brings me actually to the
second Point yeah let's before we get to
that so yeah what was the last part you
said there Augie so targeting Channel
audience attribution then he said did
you say one more thing yeah organization
organization as in the Target as in the
organizations you want to Target or your
own organization internal organization
internal organization and actual what uh
what or what org you're working in so
who's uh who is going to support you in
enabling all of the key initiatives that
you need so is it the analytics team is
it the brand marketing team is it the
product team and because again it is
very often that we
uh jump uh straight to the you know
starting okay we need this content and
we rush creating this but hey do we
actually have done customer success to
support and convert those who are who
are going to convert through this
content so adding this additional layer
of organization is very important that's
a good point sounds like quite a lot of
this is analysis work
yes absolutely I think yeah the analysis
is like the Cornerstone and uh uh yeah
and I think we tend to analyze a lot of
of numbers and again obviously digital
marketers uh are all about numbers but
again sometimes again like straight
strategy Wise It's
it may be analysis may not be enough
about numbers only it may be about like
again things like that like breaking
down everything that you do
um you mentioned something a bit earlier
as well I know we've got eight other
points to go through but you mentioned
customer Journeys a lot of people think
it's
quite straightforward I completely
disagree I think customer Journeys are
super complex especially now when you've
got things like well Chris Walker talks
about a lot of dark social and internal
communities that can't be measured like
slack groups especially when you get
deep into B2B like when people are
hanging out on channels that can't be
attributed whether it's like WhatsApp
slack internal mashing tools LinkedIn
messenger all those kind of things
and when you consider like the average
B2B touch point is I don't know what 9
10 12 13 touch points before they engage
with the sales rep and book a demo or
book a console like that stuff's complex
that's not oh that's not easily
measurable is it
no no it is not absolutely and that
actually stresses again how important it
is to again map all the activities to
the customer journey and then the
conclusion that you will get to is like
is that I cannot measure certain
activities and certain channels by
Revenue so that's why again customer
Journey so is essential so let's take
communities for example it is obvious
that you will not get like immediate
last click conversion from communities
but as long as you map this out to the
attract stage and then you build the
complete customer Journey you will
understand okay so if I build the
community I then need to make sure that
there are some activities and then each
stage that can that take over this
customer and then like take it through
through the customer Journey so again
love this exercise of mapping out
everything that you do and seeing like
how customer goes through through the
whole flow what what are semrush doing
on the attribution side of things for
those tricky to measure channels
yeah
yeah I think some rush I love some Rush
about how geeky
with the data and here in samrat we use
multi-touch attribution model uh
basically analyzing again every single
patch that the user has gone through
throughout the journey and obviously a
bit closer uh the touch was to the
actual conversion the higher its weight
in on the multi-attribution model so
this actually helps us understand uh
again what what's working what's not
working but uh talking about attribution
since we talk again about this like nine
steps uh to uh to transforming your
digital marketing I think it's essential
to connect your any type of attribution
that you have to dollar amount to
business Revenue so for example it's
multi-touch attribution not about the
number of actions but about uh
Revenue that we are generating so there
so make sure to assign a dollar amount
to all the kpis that you're having so
you're not counting again number of
registrations but this multi-touch
attribution actually shows you okay this
channel generated 100 bucks and this
channel generated like 5 000 bucks so
connecting it to transactional data your
attribution to transactional data is
like a path to success
okay let's let's get into step two
um yeah what's next up
yeah uh The Next Step was actually yeah
so I mentioned the importance of
organization right so and this brings me
again to this second step is about
actually making sure that you get buy-in
from all the relevant teams and most
important from the executive level and
uh here what I noticed is that
I think my key conclusion from all my
experience is that digital Market
digital marketing like transformation is
never about digital marketing only
uh meaning that when there whatever you
want to do you will be very much
dependent on all on all other
departments right and that means that
whenever uh whatever you want to launch
make sure that you have you know a
partner Network and other departments
have your goals as part of their
strategy as part of their you know
future let's say next year goals so to
give you an example okay so we want
let's say to implement marketing
automation solution so my job is like
again to get by from the executive level
and then from all the again from VP to
team leads to actually have marketing
automation implementation a part of
their kpis so then I will be able to do
what I need to do within digital
marketing
yeah and this becomes tough the larger
your organization is right oh yes yes
absolutely there is like huge
competition over resources and like
everyone's project is so important
obviously so that's when again connect
connecting your attribution to business
Revenue comes really handy because
you're not coming in they are saying Hey
I want this because it's right you're
saying I want this because this is how
much dollar uh dollars I'm going to
generate for this and actually having
this dollar amount attached to all their
kpis helps other departments to actually
negotiate additional resources for your
initiatives so so that it's win-win so
for example let's say we go to the I.T
Department we say okay this is like our
shared goal this is how much business
Revenue we're going to generate together
so it also gives some meaning for the
other departments right so I'm not just
implementing implementing it I'm
actually contributing to the overall
success
what about when it's a new channel that
your team hasn't worked with before and
you're unsure of the revenue that it
will bring to the table
oh okay uh you're actually uh
uh the principles of this nine
principles okay that's the next step is
it yeah yeah okay and this is actually
about like experiments so principle is
very easy like experiment experiment
experiment uh that means that you can
never actually you know rest on laurels
because like competition is out there so
make sure that not only you experiment
on a regular basis and by experiment I
mean like everywhere like Channel
creative content targeting everything
but also make sure that you have a
person a go-to person who is actually
the key driver for all experiments
within digital marketing so to give you
an example in digital marketing we
created a new team we we call the
digital hacking like growth hacking for
digital marketing only and the whole
purpose of this team
is to test so they're responsible for
multiple tests they are responsible for
documenting these tests and they are
responsible for actually implementing
and you know spreading the learnings the
information the best practices across
the marketing organization and it helped
us like drive more than 100 tests and
I'm talking about like really big tests
not like minor bidding tests but more
than 100 tests per year with this team
driving it like so they are kPa is
slightly different so they obviously we
cannot be sure that every single test
will be success we can be sure that a
lot of tests will be a failure but among
among of this experiments there will be
something that will help us grow and
then we take it from experiments team
and implement it across the digital
marketing organization have you got any
examples of a recent one that they've
done
yeah absolutely uh sign up low so uh all
of the teams are optimizing their
respective channels right but then the
traffic ends up on the general sign up
flow
and we implemented uh some time ago we
tested Dynamic headlines in paid search
so that we we customize the headline
based on the query and it was performing
real well but the question was that the
user came to the general sign up flow
which was not personalized and so this
team and no one actually could again
catch the discrepancy because again
there is like a separate website team
there is like the channel team so it was
the digital hacking team who actually
noticed hey we know that personalization
works great in paid traffic channels so
why don't we continue it and so this is
uh when we started personalizing the
sign up flow according to search query
so imagine again a person's is looking
for a website audit the Atlantic page
greets them with the website audit they
want to register the the sign up flow
says Hey here is like website audit and
the new user mirror like has grown by 40
by this uh tiny uh by this tiny change
wow okay that's an interesting one got
it so just changing changing things
within kind of messaging within ads
within Dynamic content that kind of
stuff to to see how it how it flows but
you're doing it on scale by the sounds
of it you're doing 100 or so a year yes
yeah appreciate that kind of large-scale
organizations have probably got a bit
more Flex on that side of things I
suppose kind of smaller companies are a
little bit more limited in terms of what
you can do
um any any that you've seen any tips
that you've seen that are perhaps a bit
lesser known a bit more unusual the
organizations that might not have as
much resource could consider
yeah Insurance
yeah absolutely so I think uh
okay so the audience will be hey you
already talked about this but I will
again start with the framework so if
you're again a budget constrained uh go
back and read the framework and uh I
would say list out
uh like what's most important for you
right so uh again creating uh the the
very clear list of priorities will make
sure that you are not
um
you're paying attention to to actually
what's most important and uh depending
on this again your your action plan uh
will be uh will be different so
obviously if you want to scale it really
quickly obviously paid channels is uh is
your go-to uh uh go to part if you want
to drive more engagement and build like
the loyal customer base then make use of
the email marketing channel
um if if you want uh if you are in
in a fairly good position when it comes
to business Revenue now it's time to
build your brand marketing and build
loyal customers so it's really like I
guess step by step depending on what
your what Your Business priorities are
good yeah I'll link back to the initial
priorities the initial goals understood
okay
so we talked about experiments I think I
jumped jumped your head a bit but um
what comes next yeah
uh oh and I think what comes next is
actually uh very very much uh relevant
to like smaller businesses and the way
that I put it is like you need to think
big but you start small meaning that
everyone talks about strategy like I
talked about like hey creating framework
and like uh understanding your
priorities but when you're going to
outline your priorities make sure that
you actually break them down into very
small actionable and easy to digest
steps hmm
because uh it's very important when you
start doing something
to see your successes early on and it's
both about motivation because when your
goal is like so big like okay I need to
generate like 1000 uh 100
000 like business Revenue by the end of
the year it's like oh gosh it's so
frightening but now instead you break it
down up to very very very very small uh
steps and so checking upon them first
helps you keep uh helps you be motivated
in your team but most important it helps
you understand whether you are on the
right track because especially when when
you're a small business it's always so
essential like to understand it straight
away you have very limited budget you
have very limited resources so having
the small steps
you will again understand okay I'm on
the right track or problem not and then
you'll need to redo uh redo the whole
exercise again yeah yeah no I get that I
get that I mean this this will probably
resonate with a lot of marketers that
are tuning in that perhaps have been
given Mammoth targets for 2023 and maybe
you're wondering how the heck am I going
to hit these sales targets because one I
don't have enough budget and two maybe I
don't have enough resources and the CEOs
just other maybe the VP of Revenue or
whoever's given the target is perhaps uh
perhaps on a caffeine high and as 3x to
anything that's possible so yeah are
there any any ways or any examples that
you've kind of used in the in the past
when it comes to my digital marketing
especially and how you've broken that
down into kind of milestones yeah yeah
absolutely so so first and uh first day
it comes about kpis
uh it comes about kpis so again you need
to break down everything that you need
to achieve like Waters then by months
then by weeks then by days and again we
are very nerdy here so for every single
day we know how many registrations
trials new them or are we need to do to
generate from each Channel and then you
basically track it on a daily basis uh
then it comes about projects so we uh we
break it down by key projects
and that's what we do is like but well
basically
um again being very uh
very I would say again nerdy and boring
probably but we do like regular uh
weekly or bi-weekly checks on the on all
of the uh project progress and uh
the third thing and this is more about
like what you just asked like okay you
have like this huge sales number to
achieve yeah and the 2023 is going to be
Rocky so
my Approach here like my recommendation
here would be to actually prepare
yourself for different scenarios so what
do we do is we do not only break down
okay the ultimate goal but we also
create contingency scenarios okay what
happens if we don't reach this
particular goal um how it's going to
affect our budget how is it going to
affect like the number of content that
we're going to create the number of
channels that we are running and so have
at least one Plan B
uh is going again to make your life way
easier it's like you know psychological
uh trick I think as long as you you know
went down there is you know Rabbit Hole
okay what if I don't achieve the target
number what will happen to like me and
the in my goals answer this question uh
first of all to yourself create a plan
and then all of a sudden life is so much
easier
yeah break breaking everything down into
small steps and that's that's Sound
Advice really into what you can measure
each day each week each month having
regular catch up for your team and then
like you say having contingency plans so
if you don't hit this goal what can we
do what's what's gonna be the next best
thing
um there's a lot of a lot of our
audience is going to be tuning in and
they're going to have
High targets when it comes to depending
what they're offering they're gonna be a
lot of SAS marketers or SAS sellers that
perhaps got a certain demo request
targets or consultancy request targets
so those kind of things are are going to
be quite stressful right
um in terms of I imagine semrush works
with quite a lot of or has quite a lot
of clients that that are in the SAS
space that are perhaps kind of using
your tool in your opinion
what are the top three digital marketing
channels that are SAS tech company
should be using to drive revenue for
okay okay
um
yeah I think the first one
[Music]
um
I think the way that I have it in my
head is uh again first it's very
customizable so first do your homework
and do some retrospective analysis uh
paying attention to customer acquisition
cost and the volume
and obviously uh so how are you going to
balance this out so the way that I have
it in my head so within again within our
best performing uh like list I will go
from those uh which are which have like
the the hottest leaves and then like to
uh to the list so the first is obviously
a paid search non-brand so this is like
the end of pipeline if people actually
search for something they already knew
this is like they created demand you
don't need to create it like they came
to you but be prepared that they
competition the stuff there because it's
like it's all obvious uh so the second
one is absolutely video
and uh the reason that I didn't put the
video on the first place is because
video creation takes a lot of time and a
lot of resources so you need to be
really smart about how you're going to
play this card but video is booming
right so I mean look at us it's going to
be yeah it's going to be video right so
uh and the video right now uh provides
you know this uh multiple formats and
when you're going to to
think about video my recommendations
would be to focus on very short formats
so don't go for this like you know
lengthy formats of like two minute
videos building you know brand
reputation no focus on like small uh
bits of uh 5 to 15 seconds very
actionable very to the point
um and uh yeah video is your is your uh
go to channel so that will be like my
second uh favorite one and I think the
third one it's less about like specific
channel it's more about the approach and
the approach here is like create
uh
create Academy of your own meaning uh
again people don't react to selling
content surprise it's like 2023 uh so
make sure that anything that you create
bring certain value
in a very short format so make sure that
again anything that you are going to
produce it's like a mini learning course
for your audience
talk about that it's not an ad it's like
okay this is what you need to do to be
successful but then you list like uh
tips and tricks from YouTube so
these are like top three uh from my
perspective
so you're basically saying do you know
branded paid search then become a media
company
[Laughter]
days like any any bigger organization
you know what any organization is like a
media Publishing House of Their Own
because again if you don't provide value
again competition is higher if you don't
provide value then you're out so people
do not resonate with selling messages
anymore anyway I mean I have a question
to you like what was the last time you
reacted to any direct message on
LinkedIn saying hey what's up uh check
out this website
oh it's well I can't remember because
most of them are awful but it's
and I'm sure you get a ton because
you're a VP of marketing and I get a ton
because I run a company so it's just
like literally maybe maybe one in a
hundred one in 200 is actually decent
but most of them are just Spam or
automated
exactly exactly and the the whole story
is so much different if you see a
LinkedIn post about like hey these are
like top five things that we've done in
semrush to boost our revenue and then
you're going to react and comment upon
that and actually like reach out to
someone say hey like and share it with
people so I think that's the essence
like it's less about it's sometimes less
about channels but again about what
value I would like put a giant poster if
you're a marketer like value
uh
can I ask you a tough question yes now
paid search is is great especially
non-branded because like you say it
means people aren't aware of your brand
but they're searching for what you do
I.E you provide CRM for sales people if
your website ranks there then you're
gonna get some high intent demo requests
but
review sites rank very well right
yes when I say review sites I'm talking
to you to trust era yeah you know all
the all The Usual Suspects
do you think this probably goes against
some of you like I don't know if it goes
against what you do so feel free to tell
me to leave it yeah but do you think
they're a worthwhile investment for tech
companies because I know for a fact tech
companies invest a ton in these kind of
review channels because they rank so
well organically right
yeah yeah uh my answer I think it
doesn't contradict what I said uh so for
me it's like never one thing or another
it's all about accelerating from each
other so okay you captured a certain
audience from Paid uh non-brand search
but then there is always be a gigantic
amount of users who actually didn't want
to click on the ad because they know
it's the ad and then you capture it
through through the review websites so
yeah absolutely you need to take care of
it again the question here is make sure
that again it's the focused effort
because of what I've seen a lot of times
people do it once
and then they kind of forgot then again
they do it once and then they forget so
if you if you have a page on the review
website make sure that let's say your
email Mark your email marketing team
incorporates like uh you know this uh
prescription hey uh are you happy with
our resolution rate US uh on on this
website so uh make sure that again if
you rank on Google search there is
actually you know tons of comments uh so
think about again how other teams can
continuously enrich your profile on the
review websites and another point to
that if we talk about like the search uh
the search results another thing that
you have to work uh upon is the
affiliate Network because like uh how it
uh what happens to us is okay again we
capture to the top with our ad then
there are like review websites but then
there are links from our Affiliates
making sure that again there is a third
party affiliate talking about us I'm not
our competitor so
it's about like I would say uh very
again encompassing like all-encompassing
approach like dominate dessert that's
our that's once we're on the subject
whilst we're on the subject and we've
already gone on a massive tangent so we
might as well carry on
a lot of people not myself but a lot of
people are saying SEO organic search is
on the decline for 2023
what are your thoughts
uh so this is what I don't agree to
that's for sure because hey like uh you
know what I think they've been talking
about the decline of organic search for
many years like uh remember like a
couple years ago there have been so many
YouTube videos like you know what you
know voice search is the next thing Tick
Tock search is the next thing and they
are but Google's not dying you know what
Google is still growing and growing
massively so absolutely uh make your uh
you know do your homework and just you
know go and uh check quickly the number
of people searching for your relevant
key terms and you will be like wow you
will be amazed and yes I'll absolutely
uh you know right it's like it's really
good investment the only thing like why
for example I didn't put it on my top
three list is because if we talk about
like immediate results obviously organic
search is not about immediate results
but if we talk about the long term
growth
absolutely like make sure you do that
for sure for sure I think but I see a
lot of stuff on LinkedIn now where
people say exactly what you say really
people saying like no one goes to Google
organic search anymore everyone goes to
a community or they ask their peers or
they go on YouTube or they go on Tick
Tock it's like oh sure plenty of people
do those things but there's still a ton
of people
I think the main thing to consider is
that especially in because a lot of what
we talk about is B2B Tech
everyone buys differently right so some
people will go to communities some will
ask their peers some will search on
YouTube some will search on Tick Tock
but a ton of people are still using
Google search and especially when you
get into large when you get to big
ticket sales when you get to Big Ticket
software
or B2B service doesn't matter what it is
people typically are going to compare
two three four or more vendors before
they make a decision because they're not
buying their stuff at the click of the
fingers they're taking months to
research your product you're offering
can consider it with their board they
don't decide over the night so they're
probably going to Google search to find
a couple options maybe they go into
Community for the third option maybe
they're going somewhere else with the
fourth option so if you're not ranking
as far as I'm concerned you're missing
out on Ops
yes yeah now I agree to that like you
see me nodding like very actively so
yeah absolutely and also another thing
here is like customer Journey it's very
diverse when we talk about different
audience types
I want to talk about different
geographies so I think
a few years back I did this uh deep like
research of our target audience or like
Enterprise audience uh Becca vim and I
think what we re uh what we found out
back then is that when it comes to for
example European countries and I
remember Germany specifically
users tend to go to again review
websites and third party again general
reviews way more often and it is way
more important for them again hearing
objective
third-party review and comparison to
Americans for Americans number one point
was brand I need to know the brand I
need to I need to know them like from
social media I need to hear about them
from like you know my acquaintances so
the value of brand is so much higher so
again depending on your geography
I I cannot like stress it enough but
again customer Journeys are very
different so again depending on your
geography
it may be very different but uh like you
said
uh you need to be sure that you you know
check all the boxes because it's never
about one channel it's always about
several touch points that's it and I
think if you're a smaller business you
can get away with that kind of mindset
that one or two channels is fine but if
you're a fast growing company or if
you're in the Enterprise space and
you're looking for serious growth then
you need to have these you need to
understand that everyone buys
differently and like you say when you're
looking at different Geographic
locations that's really interesting I
didn't know that that kind of Germans
were placed more weight on review sites
Americans are more brand orientated so
knowing this Intel is just key right
because otherwise you're just you're
going by guesswork and assumptions
rather than how people actually buy
yep yep awesome
so before I went off on one
um I think we covered framework
getting buy-in from the rest of the team
experiments
um thinking big but starting small
I think we've done four points if you've
got five more is that right yeah yeah
yeah I think that's the one like uh uh
one uh another one and it was about like
it's very close connected to testing so
uh remember uh when we talked about
experiments yeah it's essential that we
don't run experiments in channels only
but it goes across the board so I'll
make sure and I think yeah they've uh
the illustration here was about like the
sign up flow so again even though you're
not responsible for the sign up lull as
a digital marketer your job is to make
sure that the tests that you run are not
about channels or creators only but
about all the all the customer Journey
so I think that's a very closely
connected uh fifth uh Point uh another
thing we already touched upon it's about
like building uh dollar Revenue like
money
money driven attribution so assigning
and another uh another action point here
is assigning
uh dollar Revenue uh to actually not
only to like the final kpi which is a
purchase but also to all the immediate
uh sorry all these secondary kpis so
okay so how would you assess in dollar
amount your trial
or your registration so what they
actually mean from the dollar
perspective uh for you and then you may
come up uh come to certain conclusions
which may be a surprise to you so for
example you've sent that gated content
generates a lot of leads yeah but then
when you again connect okay so in
general like one day it brings me let's
say five dollar Revenue yeah and then
you compare it okay and this is how
let's say paid ad
user usually brings me and it's like 10
revenue and all of a sudden you're like
oh wait so all of the leads that I
generated actually are not that great so
having the dollar assigned to all the
kpis and again it may be very different
for Enterprise it may be again one lead
is worth like ten thousand dollars so
it's very very customized but having
dollar amount
assigned to each kpi is essential
is there a way is there like a equation
to work that out I.E a qualified demo
request for example might be worth 300
whereas uh
product like growth for example someone
takes a free trial they're worth 20
bucks but if someone goes up and takes a
full-on demo they're worth 300 then a
paid a paid subscriber is then worth a
grand and you divide it by X based upon
what you've spent on the initial ad is
is that kind of how you work it out or
is there yeah again we have
multi-channel attribution so for us uh
again it's uh like there is like the
whole data science uh behind it but
basically yeah you got it correctly so
uh you can like basically again uh uh
major like uh return on ad spend and you
can get it you can make it and go even
further how much resources I'm talking
about like human hours that they spend
today oh wow okay yeah yeah so working
that into the equation as well
go ahead and uh another thing here is uh
when you're going to layout again this
customer Journey like we said uh you may
often see that okay all of my touch
points actually perform really well so
for example free registration cost me
this and this is good trial cost me this
and brings me this and this is good but
then you can uh do it like this okay
what if I actually drop one of the touch
points
and my my customer Journey like shorter
so
we'll like the effect from it what it
will be like and then all of a sudden
you realize that oh okay the the shorter
customer Journey actually performs
better so yeah I may drop a trial thing
or I may drop a demo thing because all I
need to do is like send out an email
follow-up and they still convert the
same without the demo so there's like
all of a sudden
yep exactly exactly it's all
interconnected
awesome okay so I think that's six
points
yeah uh yeah right and uh I think yeah I
think one thing that we haven't touched
upon is automation
okay so automation I think it was like a
very hot topic like three to five years
ago everyone was talking about like
marketing information and like with big
players coming into Market yeah and that
this is what I realized is that it is
often in in companies but think about
automation as a done deal so I
implemented the solution
okay I automated my marketing that's it
but the reality is it's never a done
deal so it's never about okay I
implemented the platform and now we are
automated it's about the mindset so when
you're going to implement everything
that we discussed for example The Next
Step would be to go and say okay so what
can I automate because again if we talk
about all this dollar attribution
obviously it's never the manual work you
can do it manually as the first thing to
test this out as the second thing but
then it has to be automated and again
it's not only about what you do in
channels let's say about budget
automation
but it's also about what else across the
board for example automation of
creatives so be on the lookout okay so
what this platform for example can can
provide us with in terms of creative
Creation in in the automated way
so is this working out and my
understanding it right in the sense that
you're working out tasks that can be
basically take up less human hours
um or less resources
so over time you can get things done
faster and exactly bring on board
customers quicker yes exactly it's about
saving Human Resources it's and like
ours uh it's it's about actually freeing
someone's mind for something more
important so reducing like uh you know
repetitive work
and actually you know spending someone
very valuable hours on doing something
better and at the end of the day it's
all about optimization it's about the
optimization of how much you spend on
resources and how much you actually get
from all of your Investments so for
example in our case okay we Implement a
dynamic ads and this is like automated
uh way of like uh diversifying your
content so how many hours did we free
for the creative team to actually spend
uh time on some meaningful and truly
creative tasks uh and it's on and on top
of that
um it is often the system is smarter
than us and so in our case again Dynamic
creatives uh also showed much higher uh
return on ad spanned so it's on it's all
about optimization of your budgets
gotcha okay
excellent stuff so that that makes sense
in terms of working out how you can how
you can save human hours how you can
speed things up how you can get Revenue
quicker get customer acquisition costs
down understood yep so we're down to our
final two points of the nine yeah yeah
uh yeah right I think yeah I think uh
one of the points that I do uh have
again as a separate one uh is about uh
cross-team collaboration uh because uh
what I noticed is that
um
digital marketers
again I mentioned it before it would
depend very much in other teams okay and
the across team collaboration like again
have it as a standalone milestone
actually changes your mindset
and it also uh focuses your attention on
that not only you need to drive results
you also need to be able to explain
these results to other teams so that
they are going to do a better job based
on your expectations so in our case it's
like okay you're working with a Content
team so my request to digital marketing
team is okay so what are the things that
the creative or content team needs to
know that we now works on the channels
so and it's about like this mindset that
I need actually to serve like basically
on the plate the best practices for
other teams to know what's working for
me in the channel
I see so communicating effectively with
the rest of your team on what's working
yes yes and it is so challenging
sometimes especially when it comes again
digital marketing marketers tends to be
you know sit in the advertising you know
platforms like focus on numbers and then
all of a sudden gosh I need to you know
summarize it and go to another team and
explain it it's it is very challenging
but it's so worth it
well I suppose it's also challenging
because everyone has their opinion and
oh yeah so they know which channels are
the best
um oh yes so that's always a difficult
one
yeah I think I think the best way like
to bring everyone uh to the same page is
first having shared goals and second
it's all about data so my uh my opinion
to any opinion is hey we don't have
opinions here we have data so show me
the data and then we thought so it's
never like okay I think this one is
going to work better it's like okay
numbers our past experience show that
okay this is what's going to perform
better if obviously we do not reach a
conclusion hey let's do an A B test so
it's relatively easy actually you know
to to come to the common ground when we
say okay let's test it
yeah yeah yeah what do um when semrush
run experiments we talked a little bit
about it now and you mentioned you've
got a dedicated team that are running on
those if they were testing a new channel
I.E let's say perhaps they're creating I
don't know they wanted to try out tiktok
videos or
maybe they wanted to build a community
or I don't know I wanted to start
posting videos on LinkedIn I think some
Rush do most of this stuff pretty well
already but let's say for a different
B2B organization what kind of time scale
like what do you set to this are you
gonna do it I don't know daily or by
daily for six months and if we don't get
20 demo requests by the end of it waxing
it like how do you set
like expectations for a channel that
you've never ever worked with before
yeah so uh
again uh very very nerdy uh very and
simple in that so we do now our kpis for
Reach customer Journey so let's say we
launch Tick Tock videos with we know
that the uh this is the channel mostly
for the track stage because then again
we are going again to engage and nurture
the interest through other channels we
have the uh the expectations okay this
is how attractive in general works for
us this is the conversion rate
registration this is the uh let's say
bounce rate uh this is the engagement in
general for our video pieces so we
already have all the benchmarks and then
for us it's the question okay these are
the benchmarks and this is how Tick Tock
videos uh or any other content should
perform against benchmarks talking about
the timeline it's really dependent like
here we just measure here we do like
reverse engineering and we understand
okay so to get the statistically
significant result this is for how long
we need to run this ad within the given
geography so
um yeah and then we analyze it so I
think the key takeaway here for for the
audience here would be now your
benchmarks before you actually run any
any experiment any channel
got it nice let's let's have the final
final point of the nine yeah uh my final
point is actually less about tactics and
it's more about the mindset and the way
I put it is
whenever you think that you reach like
the ceiling
uh that you've done everything that you
could there is always something more so
I think the key message here is
like be be courageous
uh be always on the lookout for new
things and whenever you think that
you've done everything
it's not the case there is always
something that you can do more that you
can do better and uh yeah just again
instill this as you know your internal
uh you know internal Mantra like there
is always something more challenge
yourself and challenge your team and
then you will see this exponential
growth hmm sounds like having a bit of
an entrepreneurial mindset as in yes
I love how you put it yeah absolutely be
your your own interpreter uh it's a
sorry entrepreneur uh within your uh
area yep helps a lot when you're
passionate about what you do right
yes yes yep
I'd say that's key I mean I've certainly
worked in jobs before and if you're not
passionate about like the work itself
the results it brings or maybe the
clients that you work with and perhaps
consider another career because you just
can't get that drive right unless
there's some good enjoyment
yeah really really important
yeah it is it is so important and I
think yeah uh when it comes to
to hiring as well uh for example for me
like the must is like you know to have
this fire in your eyes when you are
talking about digital marketing like I
love talking and doing this and uh yeah
uh this is what we are looking for in
like newcomers right to have this you
know internal flame uh about things and
to be actually excited about like
spreadsheets and numbers
so yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah no I
like it I completely agree I completely
agree
um cool I'll go absolute pleasure I'm
just going to recap the nine from my
scribble down notes over the last 50
minutes or so so we've got
one for number one was framework number
two is getting buy-in
um from all the team and also linked to
dollar or Revenue attribution number
three is running experiments number four
was kind of thinking big but starting
school and working everything into small
chunks at five we had
kind of channels
um and getting customers I think was
talking to the team and getting channels
alignment across the board
um number six was kind of focusing on
money driven attribution seven we had
automating processes eight we had
cross-team cooperation and number nine
was kind of the mindset the
entrepreneurial mindset that we talked
about
I believe that was it so with that I
want to want to say thanks very much
really really enjoyed the episode in
plenty of actionable tips and thanks for
shedding some light on some Russian and
your success and plenty of advice for
anyone tuning in for what they can take
away so with that
please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can learn from you
and any way you'd like to send our
audience
yeah uh thank you uh thank you very much
it's been
it's been such a great conversation uh
thank you for that and yeah I wish like
the best luck and again uh discovering
this internal uh into an internal flame
internal inspiration uh for everyone who
is listening uh to this and yeah
it's going to be a very exciting Road
next year so good luck with that
awesome and if anyone wants to connect
with you Olga or connect with semrush
what are the best channels to find
either yourself or semra Sean yeah
LinkedIn absolutely so uh we're very
active so I'll be glad to connect
awesome and we'll put all of those links
over in the show notes at businessgrowth
dot marketing so thanks once again Olga
for coming on I appreciate it yeah thank
you thank you no worries and if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick rating
or review on your podcast Channel or
YouTube channel of choice is appreciated
and we'll catch you on the next one for
more no BS actionable B2B marketing tips
to grow your organization grow Revenue
cheers for tuning in